CHAPTER 1:

Organization: A deliberate arrangement of people to accomplish some specific purpose.

Manager: Someone who coordinates and oversees the work of other people so that organizational goals can be accomplished.

Why Study Management:
1. Universality of Management: Good management is needed in all Organizations
2. Employees either manage or are managed
3. Management offers challenging, exciting and fulfilling oppurtunities and significant rewards

Levels of Managers:
1. First-line managers manage the work of nonmanagerial employees who typically are involved with producing the organization’s products or servicing the organization’s customers.
2. Middle managers manage the work of first-line managers and can be found between the lowest and top levels of the organization.
3. Top managers, who are responsible for making organization-wide decisions and establishing the plans and goals that affect the entire organization.

Management involves coordinating and overseeing the work activities of others so that their activities are completed efficiently and effectively.
1. Efficiency: Getting the most output from the least amount of inputs.
2. Effectiveness: Doing the right things, i.e., those work activities that will help the organization reach its goals.

Managers engage in:
1. Planning: Goal setting, strategizing and developing coordination
2. Organizing: Determining what needs to be done how and by whom
3. Leading: Dealing with people
4. Controlling: Monitoring to ensure accomplishment

Managerial Roles:
Interpersonal: Involve people (subordinates and persons out-side the organization) and other duties that are ceremonial and symbolic in nature. The three interpersonal roles include figurehead, leader, and liaison. 
Informational: Involve collecting, receiving, and disseminating information.  The three informational roles include monitor, disseminator, and spokesperson. 
Decisional: Involve making decisions. The four decisional roles include entrepreneur, disturbance handler, resource allocator, and negotiator.

Managerial Skills:
1. Technical: Knowledge and proficiency in a specific field
2. Human: The ability to work well with other people
3. Conceptual: The ability to think and conceptualize about abstract and complex situations concerning the organization

CHAPTER 2:

Fayol's 14 Principles:
1. Division of work
2. Authority
3. Discipline
4. Unity of command
5. Unity of direction
6. Subordination of individual interests to the general interest
7. Remuneration
8. Centralization
9. Scalar chain
10. Order
11. Equity
12. Stability of tenure of personnel
13. Initiative
14. Esprit de corps


CHAPTER 3:

Ominpotent View:
1. Managers are directly responsible for an organization’s success or failure.
2. The quality of the organization is determined by the quality of its managers.
3. Managers are held accountable  for an organization’s performance, yet it is difficult to attribute good or poor performance directly to their influence on the organization

Symbolic View:
1. Much of an organization’s success or failure is due to external forces outside of managers’ control.
2. The ability of managers to affect outcomes is influenced and constrained by external factors.
3. Managers symbolize control and influence through their action.

External Factors:
1. Political
2. Economic
3. Sociocultural
4. Demographic
5. 
