Class Activity: 

Improving  your problem solving Skills- 29/10/2021
Situation:



The Sure To Peal Paint
Company stores all its metal compressed gas containers in a warehouse. These
long cylindrical metal tanks contain various gases used in manufacturing cans
of spray paint. The gas tanks are delivered to the warehouse by truck. Two
receiving dock workers unload the containers from the delivery trucks and place
them on four wheel trucks. Two materials handlers are responsible for pushing
the loaded trucks into the warehouse, unloading the tanks and setting them up
on end. The two materials handlers spend a major portion of their day moving
loads of the gas tanks into the warehouse and placing them into the proper
storage locations. In total, there are five different types of gases that in
equal proportion make up 98% of all gas handled.


Question:
Management would like to identify a better way to handle these gas tanks. How
can the handling operation be improved?


 


Scenario


Our client is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical
companies. Based in the US, the client has a wide range of successful products
on the markets that include various drugs for erectile dysfunction, lowering
blood cholesterol, anxiety disorders, anti-inflammatory drugs, antidepressants,
etc. Currently, the client has only one product on the market for cancer
treatment generating roughly $500M in annual sales. In the next 6-12 months,
the client is planning on introducing a new cancer drug on the market. This
particular drug, RFC-9000, will also be for cancer patients, and its target
audience is oncologists. In this space, there is one major competitor for the
client's current cancer drug. RFC-9000 has already completed clinical trials
and is currently awaiting approval from the FDA (the client is expecting FDA
approval based upon the trial results). If this new drug is introduced this
year, there will be no competition for at least one year. The current sales
force includes 750 sales representatives who support the company's cancer drug
that is already on the market. To successfully introduce the new drug to the
oncology market, the client will need to invest in expanding its sales
division.


The
client's intelligence has also suggested that a competitor might introduce a
different drug that targets the same cancer within the next 3.5 years.

Your challenge


Your job, as an external consultant, is to
help the client think through this problem: